## Assignment 2 - Mid-term Game: Potionary, A Crafting Puzzle Game

---

## Group Number

5B

---

## Description

Potionary is a potion-crafting puzzle game where players fulfill customer orders by matching symbols from a recipe book to ingredient vials.

- In the first level, players must add vials to a cauldron in the correct order to succeed. A "Customer Patience" timer begins immediately, requiring players to carefully balance speed with accuracy.

- In the second level, a mixing mechanic is introduced. In addition to adding vials to the cauldron, players must

The game is designed to foster empathy and understanding for individuals with dyslexia. For someone with dyslexia, reading can feel like decoding words in a foreign language - slow, effortful, and mentally exhausting. Even short periods of reading demand intense concentration. Potionary mirrors these experiences through symbols that are visually similar, a challenging-to-read font, and a recipe design that is intentionally difficult to interpret.

In addition, many people with dyslexia develop unique, often unconscious strategies to "decode" text, relying on context, visual memory, or multi-sensory techniques. As such, Potionary reflects not only the challenges people with dyslexia face, but also the ways they adapt.

The design is inspired by the artistic, hand-drawn, medieval art style of Potion Craft Alchemist Simulator (2022) alongside tactile, "pouring" user actions from the viral mobile game Water Sort Puzzle (2020).

---

## Setup and Interaction Instructions

- How to Start: Players view the "Aclhemist's Handbook" for instructions. They then on click "New Game" on the start screen and proceed to level one by clicking on "Level 1: Beginner's Luck" on the level map.
- Controls: View orders by clicking on the envelope icon. Click on the recipe book to view the order steps. Click and move vials from the shelf to the cauldron. Click and move the crystal to finish the potion.
- Visual Feedback: The cauldron glows when a user "picks up" a vial or crystal, indicating the drop zone. Incorrectly matched vials provide visual feedback once the user runs out of time or completes the incorrect order (fail state / win state).
- Audio Experience: Medieval-themed background music evokes escapism, intrigue, and pressure, playing on an infinite loop during gameplay.

---

## Post-Playtest

Three changes made based on playtesting:

1. Evoke Frustration & Increase Complexity of Level One: Improve game theme of dyslexia by promoting immediate frustration and cognitive load. Specific action items include: increasing the number of vials on the shelf from 5 to 12; utilizing a cursive, script font that is difficult to decode; and adding a time limit to mirror real-life, time-dependent circumstances.
2. Implement Clearer User Feedback Systems: Add hover states to all objects to increase tactility and intuitive interactions (e.g. elevate ingredient vials and crystal when hovered upon, add a subtle glow to the cauldron's top to indicate direct "dropping" zone).
3. Implement Click-to-Move: To add ingredients to the cauldron, players click on an ingredient and move it to the cauldron’s mouth (without holding the mouse down). This interaction was intentionally designed to support accessibility, as players with motor impairments may find holding and dragging difficult.

---

## Post-Showcase

Two planned improvements include:

> Reducing the Complexity of Level One Recipe: Aim to include only 3 vials instead of 5.
> Enhancing the Audio Experience: Edit background music so that it increases in intensity as customer patience depletes.

---

## Assets

> - `assets/audio/medieval-music.mp3` [9]
> - `assets/background/blue-lvl.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/level-menu.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/map-icons-default.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/map-icons-hover.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/map-icon_1.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/map-icon_2.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/map-icon_3.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/map-icon_4.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/recipe-book.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/background/start-screen.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/brand/potionary-logo-detail.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/brand/potionary-logo.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/brand/potionary-logo.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/cauldron/cauldron-default-state.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/cauldron/cauldron-glow-state.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/crystal/brown-bowl.png` (generated by Gemini, manually edited in Figma)
> - `assets/crystal/crystal-v2.png` (original artwork)
> - `assets/crystal/crystal-v2.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/order/blank-order-sheet-2.png` [3]
> - `assets/order/envelope.png` [2]
> - `assets/symbols/blue-symbol.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/symbols/green-symbol.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/symbols/orange-symbol.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/symbols/symbol-black.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/symbols/symbol-lightgreen.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/symbols/symbol-lightpurple.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/symbols/symbol-midblue.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/symbols/symbol-red.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-black.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-darkgreen.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-darkpurple.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-lightblue.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-lightgreen.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-lightorange.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-lightpink.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-lightpurple.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-lightred.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-midblue.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-teal.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/closed-yellow.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-black.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-darkgreen.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-darkpurple.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-lightblue.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-lightgreen.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-lightpink.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-lightpurple.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-lightred.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-midblue.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-orange.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-teal.svg` (original artwork)
> - `assets/vials/open-yellow.svg` (original artwork)

---

## References

[1] Alchemist Simulator. 2020. Steam Store. https://store.steampowered.com/app/1105040/Alchemist_Simulator/

[2] Flat Icon. Envelope free icon. https://www.flaticon.com/free-icon/envelope_2493541

[3] Freepik. Blank beige notepaper design vector. https://www.freepik.com/free-vector/blank-beige-notepaper-design-vector_28428625.htm

[2] Potion Craft Game Review. 2023. Immortal Wordsmith. https://www.immortalwordsmith.co.uk/potion-craft-game-review/

[3] Potion Craft: Alchemist Simulator. 2022. Video game published by tinyBuild. https://store.steampowered.com/app/1210320/Potion_Craft_Alchemist_Simulator/

[4] Potion Punch 2+. 2022. Monstronauts. https://www.monstronauts.com/all-stories/potion-punch-2-plus-apple-arcade/

[5] Potionomics. 2022. Steam Store. https://store.steampowered.com/app/1874490/Potionomics/

[6] Stardew Valley. 2016. Steam Store. https://store.steampowered.com/app/413150/Stardew_Valley/

[7] Strange Horticulture. 2022. Steam Store. https://store.steampowered.com/app/1574580/

[8] Stardew Valley 2024 Review. 2024. The Nocturnal Rambler Blog. https://thenocturnalrambler.blogspot.com/2024/06/stardew-valley-2024-review.htmlStrange_Horticulture/

[9] Tunetank. 2025. Medieval Happy Music. Pixabay. Retrieved March 12, 2026 from https://pixabay.com/music/adventure-medieval-happy-music-412790/

[10] Water Sort Puzzle. 2020. Mobile puzzle game listing on Apple App Store. https://apps.apple.com/us/app/magic-potion-sort-puzzle/id6755454821
